## Introduction

“Since 2017, NIST recommends using a secret input when hashing memorized secrets such as passwords. By mixing in a secret input (commonly called a "pepper"), one prevents an attacker from brute-forcing the password hashes altogether, even if they have the hash and salt. For example, an SQL injection typically affects only the database, not files on disk, so a pepper stored in a config file would still be out of reach for the attacker. A pepper must be randomly generated once and can be the same for all users. Many password leaks could have been made completely useless if site owners had done this.

Since there is no pepper parameter for password_hash (even though Argon2 has a "secret" parameter, PHP does not allow to set it), the correct way to mix in a pepper is to use hash_hmac().” [php.net](https://www.php.net/manual/pt_BR/function.password-hash.php#124138)

## How to use

Solital uses the [SecurePassword](https://github.com/brenno-duarte/php-secure-password) package to validate passwords and prevent attacks. That is, even if someone manages to access the hash created with this package, using only the native `password_verify` function WILL NOT return `true`.

Solital has two password helpers:

* Generate password hash

```php
pass_hash($password, int $cost = 10)
```

* Checks the hash generated by the pass_hash helper

```php
pass_verify($password, string $hash)
```

Unlike just using `password_hash` function, these helpers adds a secret entry (commonly called a pepper) to make it difficult to break the generated hash.

## Customizing the password

To change the type of algorithm used in encryption, the cost, among other options, you can edit the `auth.yaml` file.

```yaml
password:
  algorithm: default # default - argon2 - argon2d
  pepper: b3f952d5d9adea6f63bee9d4c6fceeaa
  cost: 10
  memory_cost: ''
  time_cost: ''
  threads: ''
  crypt_type: openssl
  wait_microseconds: 25000
```

In the `algorithm` key, you can add the following values: `default `, `argon2` and `argon2d`. For more information about other PHP constants, see [this link](https://www.php.net/manual/pt_BR/password.constants.php).

### Changing the value of “pepper”

As mentioned in the introduction, the `SecurePassword` package uses a “pepper” value. To change the value of this pepper, you can edit the value of the `peeper` key in the `auth.yaml` file. However, it is recommended to use the `APP_HASH` variable. If this variable does not exist in your project, run the command `php vinci generate:hash`.

If this variable is present in the `.env` file, then you can delete the `peeper` in the `auth.yaml` file.

<div class="alert alert-info mt-4" role="alert">
    <h6 class="fw-semibold">Don't change the value of this key too often, as you will need to create a new password each time this value changes. Change only if necessary or if your project is just starting. If you are using Solital Core >= 4.2, the `pepper` variable will not be present in the `auth.yaml` file. Instead, Solital will use the value of the `APP_HASH` variable.</h6>
</div>

### Changing Peeper encryption

By default, peeper is encrypted using OpenSSL. You can switch to Sodium encryption by changing the value of the `crypt_type` variable in the `auth.yaml` file.

```yaml
crypt_type: sodium
```